docs/user_guide/ATTENTION.md, before:

# Attention Backend

## Available backend

Cache-DiT supports multiple Attention backends for better performance. The supported list is as follows:

|backend|details|parallelism|attn_mask|
|:---|:---|:---|:---|    
|native| Native SDPA Attention, w/ cache-dit optimized|✅|✅|  
|_sdpa_cudnn| CUDNN Attention via SDPA API, w/ cache-dit optimized|✅|✅|
|_native_cudnn| CUDNN Attention via SDPA API, w/o cache-dit optimized|✅|✖️|
|flash| official FlashAttention-2|✅|✖️| 
|_flash_3| official FlashAttention-3|✅|✖️|
|sage| FP8 SageAttention|✅|✖️|
|_native_npu| Optimized Ascend NPU Attention|✅|✅|

Users can specify Attention backend by setting the `attention_backend` parameter of `parallel_kwargs`:

```python
from cache_dit import ParallelismConfig

cache_dit.enable_cache(
    pipe_or_adapter, 
    cache_config=DBCacheConfig(...),
    parallelism_config=ParallelismConfig(
        ulysses_size=2, # or, tp_size=2
        parallel_kwargs={
            # flash, native(sdpa), _native_cudnn, _sdpa_cudnn, sage
            "attention_backend": "_sdpa_cudnn",
        },
    ),
)
```

## FP8 Attention

<div id="fp8-attention"></div>

For FP8 Attention, users must install `sage-attention`. Then, pass the `sage` attention backend to the parallelism configuration as an extra parameter. Please note that `attention mask` is not currently supported for FP8 sage attention.

```python
# pip3 install "cache-dit[parallelism]"
# pip3 install git+https://github.com/thu-ml/SageAttention.git 
from cache_dit import ParallelismConfig

cache_dit.enable_cache(
    pipe_or_adapter, 
    cache_config=DBCacheConfig(...),
    parallelism_config=ParallelismConfig(
        ulysses_size=2, # or, tp_size=2
        parallel_kwargs={
            # flash, native(sdpa), _native_cudnn, _sdpa_cudnn, sage
            "attention_backend": "sage",
        },
    ),
)
# torchrun --nproc_per_node=2 parallel_fp8_cache.py
```

Commit message:

feat: add set_attn_backend api (#748)
* attention: allow set custom attn backend for non-cache and non-parallel case

* attention: allow set custom attn backend for non-cache and non-parallel case

* attention: allow set custom attn backend for non-cache and non-parallel case

docs/user_guide/ATTENTION.md, after:

# Attention Backend

## Available backend

Cache-DiT supports multiple Attention backends for better performance. The supported list is as follows:

|backend|details|parallelism|attn_mask|
|:---|:---|:---|:---|    
|native| Native SDPA Attention, w/ cache-dit optimized|✅|✅|  
|_sdpa_cudnn| CUDNN Attention via SDPA API, w/ cache-dit optimized|✅|✅|
|_native_cudnn| CUDNN Attention via SDPA API, w/o cache-dit optimized|✅|✖️|
|flash| official FlashAttention-2|✅|✖️| 
|_flash_3| official FlashAttention-3|✅|✖️|
|sage| FP8 SageAttention|✅|✖️|
|_native_npu| Optimized Ascend NPU Attention|✅|✅|


## Single GPU Inference

Users can specify Attention backend by setting the `attention_backend` parameter of `enable_cache` API or use `set_attn_backend` interface directly.  

```python
import cache_dit

# Setting the `attention_backend` parameter of `enable_cache` API
cache_dit.enable_cache(pipe_or_adapter, ..., attention_backend="_sdpa_cudnn")
# Or, use `set_attn_backend` interface directly.  
cache_dit.set_attn_backend(pipe_or_adapter, attention_backend="_sdpa_cudnn")
```


## Distributed inference

Users also can specify Attention backend by setting the `attention_backend` parameter of `parallel_kwargs` in the cases of distributed inference:

```python
from cache_dit import ParallelismConfig

cache_dit.enable_cache(
    pipe_or_adapter, 
    cache_config=DBCacheConfig(...),
    parallelism_config=ParallelismConfig(
        ulysses_size=2, # or, tp_size=2
        parallel_kwargs={
            # flash, native(sdpa), _native_cudnn, _sdpa_cudnn, sage
            "attention_backend": "_sdpa_cudnn",
        },
    ),
)
```

## FP8 Attention

<div id="fp8-attention"></div>

For FP8 Attention, users must install `sage-attention`. Then, pass the `sage` attention backend to the parallelism configuration as an extra parameter. Please note that `attention mask` is not currently supported for FP8 sage attention.

```python
# pip3 install "cache-dit[parallelism]"
# pip3 install git+https://github.com/thu-ml/SageAttention.git 
from cache_dit import ParallelismConfig

cache_dit.enable_cache(
    pipe_or_adapter, 
    cache_config=DBCacheConfig(...),
    parallelism_config=ParallelismConfig(
        ulysses_size=2, # or, tp_size=2
        parallel_kwargs={
            # flash, native(sdpa), _native_cudnn, _sdpa_cudnn, sage
            "attention_backend": "sage",
        },
    ),
)
# torchrun --nproc_per_node=2 parallel_fp8_cache.py
```
